# Dextera - Senior Design Final Project

__Authors__: Ethan Bradlow, Liam Cook, Cheryl Feig, Danielle Gelb, Max Hartman, Alexis Mitchnick  
__Date__: Fall 2018 - Spring 2019

## Abstract
Third-hands are common tools used by professionals across multiple industries to hold a work object while the users’ hands are busy manipulating the object. However, these tools are manually adjusted, which requires a user to put down their tools, break their workflow to adjust the device, and potentially risk damaging their work in the process. Jewelers are especially affected by this problem; the stakeholders surveyed will spend approximately half of their day soldering, with the majority of that time spent simply adjusting. Dextera is the first voice-activated, robotic, third-hand tool specifically optimized for jewelry soldering. The device allows users to overcome the counterintuitive and disruptive nature of using a third-hand tool by giving them hands-free control over a the position and orientation of a work object.

The arm of Dextera consists of three joints, one linear joint, which allows for up and down movement of the arm, and two rotational joints, which allow for full 360 degree rotation of the arm as well as tilting at the wrist. The device features a dual gripper system to allow users to hold all types of desired objects from one or two contact points. Dextera is packaged in a protective yet sleek exterior casing which shields the internal components from heat, dirt, and other debris while simultaneously ensuring a consumer-ready look. The compact design of the device ensures it is able to fit comfortably on a jeweler’s crowded worktable.
The team was successfully able to meet user needs, creating a product that is efficient, intuitive, safe, and enjoyable. Dextera reliably holds all jewelry objects specified by stakeholders - supporting the weight of each object while ensuring no damage to the piece. Dextera responds accurately to users’ commands and is able to move to a new, desired position in under 2 seconds after the user has finished speaking.
